# Customizing the tree view
To change the basic settings of the tree view you can use the [`TreeViewSettings`] to customize the tree view
or use the convenience methods on [`TreeView`] directly.
Check out [`TreeViewSettings`] for all settings possible on the tree view.
```
TreeView::new(id)
    .with_settings(TreeViewSettings{
        override_indent: Some(15),
        fill_space_horizontal: true,
        fill_space_vertical: true,
        ..Default::default()
    })
    .max_height(200)
    .show(ui, |builder| {
    ...
});
```

# Customizing nodes, directories and leaves
To customize nodes, directories, and leaves you can use the [`NodeBuilder`] before adding the node
to the [`builder`](TreeViewBuilder).
Here you can add an icon to the node that is shown in-front of the label, for directories you can also
show a custom closer. It is also possible to configure the context menu for this node specifically. More
about context menus in the context menu section.

Look at [`NodeBuilder`] for all configuration options of a node.
```
TreeView::new(id).show(ui, |builder| {
    builder.node(NodeBuilder::dir(0)
        .default_open(false)
        .label("Root")
        .icon(|ui| {
            egui::Image::new(egui::include_image!("settings.png"))
                .tint(ui.visuals().widgets.noninteractive.fg_stroke.color)
                .paint_at(ui, ui.max_rect());
        }));
    // other leaves or directories
    builder.close_dir(); // dont forget to close the root directory at the end.
});
```

## This is a sub section

maybe now?


# Multi select
The tree view supports selecting multiple nodes at once. This behavior was modeled after the
Windows file explorer and supports all the common keyboard navigation behaviors.

Clicking on a node selects this node. Shift clicking will select all nodes between the previously selected
node (the pivot node) and the newly clicked node. Control clicking (command click on Mac) will add the
clicked node to the selection or remove it from the selection if it was already selected.

You can use the arrow keys to move the selection through the tree. If you hold either shift or control(command on Mac)
while navigating with the arrow keys you will move a cursor through the tree instead. How nodes are selected in this
mode depends on the configuration of shift and control being held down.
* **shift only** this will select all nodes between the pivot node and the cursor.
* **control only** Only moves the cursor. Pressing space will either select or deselect the current node underneath the cursor
* **shift and control** Every node the cursor reaches is added to the selection.

You can disable multi selection by setting [`allow_multi_select`](TreeView::allow_multi_selection) to
false in the [`TreeView`] or the [`TreeViewSettings`].

# Context menus
You can add a context menu to a node by specifying it in the [`NodeBuilder`].
```
treebuilder.node(NodeBuilder::leaf(0)
    .context_menu(|ui|{
        ui.label("i am the context menu for this node")
    }));
```
If a node was right-clicked but did not configure a context menu then the [`fallback context menu`](TreeView::fallback_context_menu)
will be used.

The [`fallback context menu`](TreeView::fallback_context_menu) in the [`TreeView`] also serves as the context menu
for right-clicking on multiple nodes in a multi selection. Here the list of all nodes that belong to this context menu is passed in

```
TreeView::new(id)
    .fallback_context_menu(|ui, nodes| {
        for node in nodes{
            ui.label(format!("selected node: {}", node));
        }
    })
    .show(ui, |builder| {
        builder.dir(0, "Root");
        builder.leaf(1, "Ava");
        builder.leaf(2, "Benjamin");
        builder.leaf(3, "Charlotte");
        builder.close_dir();
    });
```


**A side node about sizing of the context menu:**
All nodes and the fallback share the same context menu. In egui, the size of a context menu
is determined the first time the context menu becomes visible. For this reason, you might have
to set the size of the context menu manually with `ui.set_width` if you plan on having multiple
differently sized context menus in your tree.

# Actions generated by the tree view
Since the tree view is agnostic to the implementation of the data there are some interactions
that the tree view would like to acomplish but it cannot do them on its own.
The tree view will instead create a list of [`Action`]s as part of its reponse. It is up to the
user to implement these actions correctly for the interaction to work correctly.

Actions generated by the tree view are:
* [`Drag`](`Action::Drag`) and [`Move`](`Action::Move`) actions to create drag and drop interactions.
* [`Activate`](`Action::Activate`) to activate a set of nodes. This action can be used to open files
by double clicking for example.
* [`SetSelected`](`Action::SetSelected`) action to change the selected nodes of the tree.

## Drag and Move actions
The [`Drag`](`Action::Drag`) and [`Move`](`Action::Move`) can be used to implement a drag and drop
interaction of the tree.
A drag that has not yet been dropped is represented by the [`Drag`](`Action::Drag`) action. With
this action you can test if the drag is valid or not. If the drag invalid you may decide to remove the drop
marker from the tree by calling the [`DragAndDrop::remove_drop_marker`] method of the action.

The [`Move`](`Action::Move`) is used to indicated that the node has been dropped to a new position in the tree
and it now needs to be moved in the underlying data strucuter.

A node can control if it wants to be a valid target of a `Drag` or `Move` action by setting
its [`drop_allowed`](NodeBuilder::drop_allowed) property.

## Activating nodes
The tree view will generate the [`Activate`](`Action::Activate`) action either when the enter key is pressed
or when a node is double clicked and will contain all activatable nodes from the currently selected nodes.

What exactly "activate" means is up to the implementation of the action. If for example your tree view
contains files you can use the activate action to open these files in a new window or tab.

By default only leaf nodes are activatable. You can override this by setting the [`activatable`](`NodeBuilder::activatable`)
property of a node.